Professional statement outline 

To develop a professional statement that briefly explains who you are and what you are passionate about, follow the steps outlined. 

Note: You will need a piece of paper or a blank word processing document to complete this activity
Step one
List two to three strengths that you currently have or are committed to developing  (e.g., strong written and verbal communication, time management, programming, etc.).\
Programming
Leadership
Web Designing
Verbal Communication

Having an inventory of your strengths can help you create your professional statement. It may also encourage you to focus on skills you want to develop as you progress through the certificate program. 
Step two
List one to two values you have (e.g., protecting organizations, protecting people, adhering to laws, ensuring equitable access, etc.).
Ensuring equitable access
Ensuring a healthy organization

Establishing your values can help you and a prospective employer determine if your goals are aligned. Ensure that you are representing yourself accurately, and be honest about what motivates you.
Step three
Ask yourself some clarifying questions to determine what to include in your professional statement:
What most interests me about the field of cybersecurity?
The reason why I am taking cybersecurity is to know how I will protect the organization’s data. Also, It helps me to understand what is happening behind the securing data.

Who is the audience for my professional statement (e.g., cybersecurity recruiters, specific organizations, government employers, etc.)?
As of the moment, myself is the audience for my professional statement but I wanted to use it in government when I finished the course and take seminars about cybersecurity.

In what ways can my strengths, values, and interest in cybersecurity support the security goals of various organizations?
As I mentioned, my strengths are leadership, verbal communication, web designing, and programming. In that way, I can use it to secure and support the organization. 

Note: This is just a draft. You should continue to revise and refine your professional statement, throughout the program, until you feel that it’s ready to share with potential employers.
